and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business
growth show excited to be joined by
stephen hodges today
stephen is a junk professor ceo and
serial entrepreneur
from oregon in the states he currently
teaches at oregon state university in
the college of business
and he owns and operates boston hub
digital development
llc and has more recently been
specializing in virtual events and trade
shows stephen works with smes
with their google ads efforts and builds
custom enterprise web pages focused
on e-commerce stephen looking forward to
chatting today man how are you doing
uh sam thank you so much for having me
on it is quite an
honor uh it's thousands of kilometers
away it's great
that uh we get to have this conversation
it's the harnessing the power of the
internet i'm really honored to be here
uh it's great it's quite early here on
the west coast it's still
dark and uh it is currently according to
my temperature
38 degrees but for you that means
something very very different than it
means for us right
yeah that would be really really hot so
that'll probably be me away in greece or
egypt or somewhere nice and sunny
probably sipping a cocktail by the yeah
by the beach or by the puma but uh
i appreciate you joining us nice and
early and we've got a really
exciting topic today stephen i'm looking
forward to and i know you and i have had
some back and forth on linkedin for some
months
so i think this is going to be very very
valuable to both myself and everyone
tuning in today
and it's all geared around why people
need to claim their google my business
listing today so i think if we could hit
it from the ground running really
stephen and talk about
first of all why it's so important and
for people that perhaps
heard of google my business but don't
really know how it can help their own
company
absolutely and so google my business is
it's a free tool that google
uh has internally uh anyone can sign up
for it for their business
uh it's it's free it's very easy to use
there's just a couple of learning uh
steps you have to get over but the idea
is that this
is google's internal tool and so google
has a preference for you to
use google stay within the google
ecosystem
and the big thing why this is the most
important is because a lot of people
where they think that they're going to a
browser and trying to find
a plumber near me or maybe
a web developer near me etc uh they're
going to type that into whatever they
think it is and
realistically that's going to be on
google whether it's on their phone
or whether that's on their computer and
one of the very first things that google
is going to want to do
is show their own internal tools like
google my business
now in the age of kova 19 at least
where we are here in the united states
and i know in other parts of the world
uh things are shutting down opening up
um particularly for restaurants it's are
you accepting take out are you doing in
person
outdoor seating all of that stuff well
you can mark that
super easy on google my business
but the problem is that most businesses
don't claim that property and so if you
don't create a google my business for
your own company somebody can create it
for you
or google can create it on behalf
of you and what happens is that if that
property gets created
and you don't claim it if for some
strange reason there is a
review that you need to respond to or if
you do need to update and be like oh my
gosh we have this new program
that we're now doing indoor dining
because that restriction just got lifted
yesterday
well if you don't have that claimed it's
going to be several days until you can
claim that
and make those changes and time is of
the essence there's a lot of businesses
that are really up and down right now
and you want to be able to have
control over that and statistic i'll
leave in this very first part of the
show
56 percent of businesses in the united
states at least in the united states
have not claimed their google my
business
meaning that there is a lot of
information about businesses that are
out there that either businesses don't
have any control over or they don't have
any
sort of ownership over and they can't
respond to any of it so that is
the biggest reason why you want to know
what google my business is
and you want to claim it wow yeah
amazing stat i mean
naturally us both being owners of
digital marketing companies we're aware
of why it's so good but i can say for
sure even after being
working at a web company for a couple
years i didn't quite realize the effect
and until now i didn't realize it was a
whopping 56 percent of people or
companies rather especially in us
usa that haven't claimed it and it being
free it's
it's really really important just like
you say stephen so we'll dive into
exactly how people can set up
and how easy it is to get up and running
um but before we get into that i'd like
to drill down a bit more into
why it's so useful so you mentioned
quite often if
i know especially if i need help with
something so if i'm perhaps i'm looking
for a diy guy because i'm terrible at
anything diy whether it's putting up a
painting painting a wall
anything like that i'm getting my dad
around when i'm getting a specialist
round because i know i'm going to do a
botched job and it's probably going to
fall down within 10 minutes of me
putting it up
so all that kind of stuff i'm certainly
searching on google so is that is that
where it comes useful stephen for those
kind of
situations yeah i think i think you and
i might be related somehow because
that's exactly it because anything with
computers it's like i got it you know
anything that has to do with putting
pixels together maybe putting assembling
a computer would be like tv installation
i got it tv installation on the wall
that's a completely different story that
involves you know a drill and some screw
i'm going to go hire an electrician and
so i'm going to go to google and
realistically it's like what google's 85
of the the
search engine traffic i'm gonna go to
google and i'm gonna type in either
electrician in albany oregon where i
live albany oregon
or electrician near me those are the
search terms
and that drills down to what you and i
know and refer to as
local seo we want
we want uh the diy uh team the
electrician the plumber
the web developer who's local to me and
so
google is going to be like hey i know
somebody
who is here by the way here's their
google my business profile
google has been very intentional about
keeping people within the
google ecosystem so if you look really
carefully when you click on some
articles
you'll notice it doesn't actually go to
that website it stays within the google
ecosystem they want you to stay within
that they want you to shop within that
they want to watch
videos with them their youtube etc and
so this is just another way that you can
do that
by having the google my business it's
because it's a google internal
tool and within that you can have things
like
your address your services some pictures
your logo
how to call you where you are on the map
and stuff like that
got it so just for the sake of clarity
what is the difference between let's say
a google ad so
if we do a search result on google we
know typically we've got the google ads
that show at the top and the bottom
um we've got the organic listings from
seo search engine optimization
and then we've got the google my
business listings
which are typically local like we said
if you're searching for a specific trade
or service or product near yourself so
what what's the main differences between
those those three that would typically
show up in our results
yeah and so one cool thing about google
my business is
it kind of sidesteps ranking in a way
it's because you have as you said you
have your your paid listings at the top
and then you have seo
um those are there's a lot of
competition for that but
a lot of times for a lot of the way that
people have their device set up is to
the side of that to the right of that
you can have google my business will it
will show either on the side
or up top uh map listings and so
google maps is an incredibly powerful
tool and i know that i do this
i have it set up in my car that i can
say uh okay google and i hope that
google's not listening in my out
building right now and i say okay google
find me
you know a restaurant near me or um
some something like that or i need a
restaurant or help me get home etc
and so that uses google maps and google
maps in itself
is a huge search engine and so
having a google my business listing is
listed there as well
in a lot of times especially if you have
a physical address that you're using if
you're using a service area it looks a
little bit different
but the way that google maps works in
the google my business works is it's
almost sidestepping
a lot of the seo and sem based ranking
because
it'll easily show up at the very top and
be like oh here's a list of all the
plumbers that are in this area
here's the map or it's on the side
depending on how you have your device
set up so it's almost sidestepping
the rest of the rat race to try to get
rankings
really good point so i guess if you're a
new business
or if it's something you've not yet set
up or perhaps you've just started
marketing so maybe you've just started
doing some seo
some paid ads work you just started
doing some social media
and you're getting all that marketing up
and running whilst that's taking effect
if you get your google my business
listing up there
it's almost leapfrogging you ahead of
all the businesses that haven't
and it gives you a chance to to get get
in front of idle customers right
so they can they can see what you do and
then you're cool i'll see your website
see your reviews and all that good stuff
exactly and and that's the one thing
that um i i've been teaching this now
for a couple years
um and it's it has become increasingly
important of course
for 2020 with covet 19. um but
what i started doing a couple years ago
is i started noticing that okay i moved
down here in 2016.
i used to live in portland i moved down
here an hour away and i was
effectively there was there was a huge
agency that was like okay they're a
completely different type of
company and then there was me you know
we're we're a smaller agency but we're
definitely an agency and then on google
my business i noticed that all these
companies started
getting listed there i'm like ah okay um
that
helped me understand my competitors
really
well also um i wanted to take a moment
while i'm thinking about this
is that a lot of people like okay i have
a small business
and i want to get ranked on here i've
been working with this uh
webchoice uk company they've been giving
me lots of listing lots of leads really
appreciate them right sam
um and i don't want to list my physical
address though
you know at least here in the united
states there's concerns about privacy
about people coming to your house etc
you can actually set what's called a
service area so where people are saying
i want a web developer who's in
the albany oregon area and then if you
do that for example my address is not
listed through this so
even if you're running a business from
home you don't have a business address
that's okay you can have what's called a
service area
instead so you don't have to be
concerned about people knowing where you
live
that sounds great so that's a great time
saver as well so you don't get inquiries
from areas that you don't cover
which could waste your time and
prospective customers as well all right
steve unless
before we before we get into all the
features and benefits and advantages
let's dive into
how we can claim this listing and
perhaps a few
few basics of getting started getting it
set up
sure sure so if you don't have a listing
already created
all you need to do is go to google my
business and set it up it's very very
easy it'll ask you a couple questions
uh it will ask for your address at that
point
and that is to verify that you own the
location and so if you if
you do not have a google my business set
profile set up
you can start from fresh it will ask you
for your
your address just to verify uh that you
are the owner of the company
um it'll ask you a couple things like
okay do you want to have a phone number
do you want to have
an email address do you want to offer
services and it asks you all sorts of
questions
it's one of those things that you can
put tons of time into it you don't have
to put a lot of time into it
whatever and you can build over time if
the profile already exists and you type
it into google
you can just click type press the button
it says claim
this business and i'll go through a
verification process that generally
includes sending a postcard to your home
or wherever your
your business is that has a verification
code so yes it uses old school post
you think that google would have some
sort of crazy way that they'd figure out
how to do this but they send you a po at
least here in the united states they
send you a postcard i'm in the uk
yep and i think it's i think it's great
um and i do that for
a lot of my clients is because they
don't want to deal with it um and so i
help them verify me and then i can add
my client to it and send them
as an authorized user so those the way
that you can either claim or start it
it's very easy
okay and do we need to have a physical
bricks and mortar
set up office location or can we have a
virtual address as we know
especially since covered a lot of us
have moved to working from home working
remotely
and are setting up more virtual
addresses that might perhaps even take
our posts or emails for us
exactly exactly so what you're saying is
what i was referring to as
a service area yeah i know i
uh i i might have been using the wrong
nomenclature there but
but a service area is where you do need
to have
a physical location and you can use your
home you can use your home as that
physical locations because they need to
have
an association of that property with a
human being
somewhere so even if you're i don't know
your company
is on the east coast of the united
states you're over here in the west
coast they will
you can have your headquarters here in
the west coast and say okay well my
service area is over there in
connecticut
or wherever in the west on the east
coast so they they need to have an
address it's morally mostly for
verification purposes only now of course
if you are
locally focused again like a diy company
you of course want to have
a a local address and all of that but
that local address is more for
verification purposes
gotcha gotcha so if we don't perhaps
have a physical
office we can use our own home worst
case scenario or perhaps
some wherever else we trust for our
business to operate okay that makes
sense
and once we've once we've done that
process stephen once we've got it up and
running the listing's showing
is there much we need to do in terms of
regular maintenance regular posts or
how can we make sure that it stays up to
date that it stays
active and that our listing is going to
show for our potential customers when
they are
searching for what we offer this is this
is great i'm really glad you brought
that up
uh we've been trying a strategy now for
this year where
we have regular postings on our google
my business so it's not like
you know on linkedin you can post a lot
if you're on
facebook you can post a lot it's not
necessarily designed for a lot of
postings
what we do is we normally do one post
per month and that post will expire and
will fall off
and so our posts are more of hey check
this out this was a client that we did
um so i'm thinking of a decking company
so uh
one big thing that we saw really really
big over the summer with covet 19 is a
lot of people were spending time with
with their family their immediate family
in their backyards they saw their deck
we want to have a new deck because we're
spending lots of time at home
and so what we what we did was like okay
uh let's do some
posts about how great it is to spend
time outdoors with the family
and to spend time looking at this
beautiful different types of hardwood
that you can have
and so we did posts like this and it was
like once a month so if you're and
that's
really into it most companies don't even
get to that point
at all the bigger things to to focus on
that i would really really recommend
is things like pictures having some
regularly updated pictures because you
don't have pictures that are very
clearly dated i know that there are some
companies
that have pictures that are like these
were scanned in pictures from pictures
from the 1990s
i'm not kidding you don't you don't want
to have pictures like that you want to
have some reasonably
up-to-date pictures every once in a
while um if you do have
messaging enabled of course you want to
be able to respond to those messages you
want to be able to change your services
if you have offer different services
it's things like that that are very very
practical
the actual update and and upkeep is
actually very very minor
um if you do notice though because
google analytics you know they have
you want to be able to have measurable
marketing outcomes if you notice that
lots of people are looking at your
google my business profile
then spend tons of time on it enable you
know
enable messaging you want to make sure
that you're sending lots of people there
to get reviews there's a way that you
can send people directly there to get
reviews
responding to reviews you want people to
generate content
things like that while we're on this
topic what you can do
and there are a couple gimmicks that
people have
uh their clients do but you can do
things like hey if you come back as a
client we'll give you 10
off if you give us a review so yesterday
i was at a local food cart food carts
are really big here
it's because they're you know they're
self-contained and you can have them
anywhere and you can go get food and
not have to eat indoors et cetera um
they said hey
here's a coupon for three dollars off if
you give us a review on facebook
and er and facebook and google my
business i said
okay very easy that user generated
content is super valuable
super valuable nice nice um no really
good really good tip man
so it doesn't necessarily mean it's
something that we have to update with
posts
every day or every week as long as we're
putting reasonably fresh content up
there and like you say making sure the
images that show on our listing are nice
high quality
relevant images to what we do
so within within google my business
listings so reviews and stuff
all that kind of thing i linked up right
yeah so once you claim your business
listing then you have the ability like
you
mentioned to allow your clients they're
happy to leave you a nice testimonial
leave you a nice five-star review
and that also helps with seo right so
google reviews are now a factor in seo
so that can all have a
as a bribe product help your natural
position your natural rankings for your
website
starts at nice um are there any other
tools that we need to be aware of that
are within the google my business suite
any anything else that we've not yet
covered that we need to
check off the list yeah i alluded to
reviews i'm also glad that you talked
about reviews reviews are so valuable
there are a couple ways a pro tip when
it comes to reviews
is that normally you can say hey would
you just go to google and type my
business in and give me a review
a lot what you want you want to make
this as easy as possible
um i think that facebook almost makes
this easier for google there's a couple
steps you have to do but you can
generate a link
that goes directly to your google my
business and
opens up the dialog box where you can
save five stars here you go
um that google kind of makes that a
little bit difficult there's a couple
of of like crm softwares that will do
that for you automatically
um if you start to get really high
volume business it's not a bad idea to
go with
some sort of review management system
but the pro tip is that if you're just
getting started
and you want to make it amazingly easy
for somebody to be able to give you
a review on google my business which is
really really good you want to make sure
you have reviews on several different
platforms
you want to make it easy and you can
generate a link that'll go directly
to leaving a review open that dialog
box that's something that a lot of
people don't know but that's something
that you should definitely consider
that so that's the pro tip number one
another pro tip is messaging
um some companies really get into this
and it's really important and my
approach is always
you want to do enough to be able to lift
off the ground
you know you won't have you want to have
some pictures on there you want to be
able to have some basic content etc
um if people start to really engage with
it that's when you can start using a lot
of these tools like
um if you offer service appointments you
can actually manage
those and schedule service appointments
directly through
uh google there's a a bunch of different
um platforms as well
uh that will interface with google my
business where you'll say hey
schedule an appointment and that would
go to an external tool
there's all sorts of things that you can
do and a lot of it is
you want to be able to assess the data
so if you are getting going and you
realize that wow
tons of people are engaging with this
open up
every tool and start spending lots of
time with it but if it's kind of a
trickle
and you need to focus on google ads
instead if you need to focus on
facebook instead or whatever it is um
you can you there's only a certain
amount of time
right there's only a certain amount of
time so
i want to get to the crux of this
stephen so we we've talked about how we
can set up we've talked about some of
the finer details of google my business
i know it's something we do when we when
we do seo campaigns for clients when we
do digital marketing strategies one of
the first things we do
and it's what's so important is it
something that seriously gets leads in
though is it something that you've seen
for your clients that really generates
business gets gets inbound calls gets in
inbound quote requests or whatever they
want the customer to do
does it actually get real results yes
absolutely um the biggest industries
here that we've seen
be successful is uh contractors so diy
companies
uh particularly there's a type of uh
foam roof it's called which is very
common
in the southern part of the united
states where you know their houses
literally are getting baked by the sun
for nine months out of the year
and so it's a special type of foam roof
um the outlook for contracting work in
the united states is
insane for 2021 despite the global
pandemic
and also economic recession the outlook
for that
is just insane so we have created
different google my businesses
because they ha they actually have
offices in different parts of the
southern united states
and so we created individual google my
business for each one of those we get
the reviews and then
uh they get they get solid leads because
every single time someone taps
call um and those are what from we've
what we've seen
those leads are very hot very very hot
leads
so with they have like an 80 conversion
rate of those that's pretty crazy
awesome man um so it's almost like a
hack like we were saying earlier because
it's getting you straight to the top of
google
and if you're on your phone it's it's
pretty much near the top as soon as you
do the search so you can literally click
cool
or you can view their reviews you can
read more details about the business see
the images or click through to their
to their website to get more info so
it's almost a hack on that way so
i guess especially with with covert as
we know this that's been
in effect for many months now it's a
good use of your time
if you're perhaps strapped on marketing
spend as well so if you're limited on
what budget and you haven't yet set up
this
this this tool on on google it's
something you really need to do now
make sure it's up and running especially
if you're scratching about for clients
it could get your customers pretty
pretty soon from what we've discussed
yeah the one thing that again it's
if you are a local contracting company
and
restaurants those have been just so
those are the companies that i've been
working with a lot even just
i just want to help out some free
consulting please please please would
you just
please claim this business because if
our governor
changes the rules of restaurants
tomorrow
at the press conference you don't know
until you listen to that press
conference and then
you know the governor says x y and z
well now you can change your
all of those offerings immediately on
google my business and everyone's going
to see it because that
honestly is going to be the public face
for most restaurants
restaurants near me hamburgers near me
um plumber near me
and if there are different stipulations
for the government regulations about
what businesses are allowed to operate
where
you can make those changes immediately
there is a google my business app you
can literally make it on the go
pull the truck over change it on your
google my business app
and keep going down the road to your
next client um that it
cannot be understated and i realize that
i have lots of americanisms in there
but yeah but yeah yeah we eat hamburgers
drive trucks that's what we do
good man good man stephen look this has
been extremely useful
and i i actively encourage anyone that's
not yet set up their google my business
to
get off get off your phone get off this
podcast set up then get back on the
podcast
all right dude is there anything we've
not yet covered that is important about
this or we pretty much covered all
ground on gmb now
i just want to encourage everybody i
know that it is a tough
environment out there but being your own
owning your own business
is fabulous it's wonderful and so please
keep that in mind
is that even if you're not experiencing
great amounts of growth right now it's
okay
i think that things are going to get
better but the industry is changing
and so staying on top of the trends and
understanding new tools or
being able to use older tools and
staying on top of things
will help you uh you have to roll we can
we say we
have to roll with the punches and so
rolling with the punches is
for example understanding google my
business and if you ever
do get to your wit's end and you need to
go hire professional
i know that sam does great work and so
there's a lot of there's a lot of great
people that are experts in the field
and i gotta hand it to sam i know that
his firm does great work
and i really sincerely appreciate you
being letting me be here on the podcast
with you
hey man steven look really really
appreciate you coming on it's been very
very useful for for myself for the
audience especially
so with that sir please do tell us a bit
more about your businesses
how people can connect with you learn
from you and the best way to get in
touch
sure sure uh so gosh uh
i have a couple of uh irons in the fire
as we say i'm just on f
well i have all these americanisms going
on today um so i own a company called
boson hub digital development we've been
a company for
about 10 or 15 years depending on how
you look at it we've been a pretty
i guess more of a serious company for
about the last eight years um
and we do a lot of google ads and
seo for what we call medium sized
companies and so companies
that have maybe somewhere between uh 25
and 100
employees somewhere in there we've been
really focusing on that
uh that's been going really well i used
to be a traditional web developer and
then
switched over into digital marketing and
so i have a web
development team um i have a business
writing team i have a graphic design
team
and they just do fabulous work and it's
just so wonderful
we've been doing a lot of virtual events
i think virtual events are going to be
with us for
quite quite a long time or at least
hybrid events even after all of this is
over and i'm very hopeful that i think
it's going to be
a while now before we have an in-person
trade show or an in-person conference
and so i developed a platform to be able
to do that which has been
incredibly incredibly fruitful for us as
a company but also for our clients
uh they've been able to continue a lot
of events where they're like i didn't
think that i could do this and be like
well you can you can do this i've been
able to provide a very a very concierge
experience where they don't have to deal
with anything except i send them a link
be like here
show up at this time and talk about the
topics you want to talk about so
uh that's been really good um on top of
that i'm from a family business uh that
does trade shows that's actually where
the trade
virtual trade show business uh came from
so i'm this the ceo of that company
uh and they've been in business since
about 2007 they started it during the
last recession
uh and we're barely hanging on there um
that's been that's been really tough
they do scientific and biotechnology
trade shows
oh what else uh and then i also am the
founder of a charity
uh where we give out micro grants to um
entrepreneurs that want to get off the
ground and so prime i live in a very
rural area
um the united states is a very rural
country in a lot of ways and so i live
well we say in the middle of nowhere
there's another idiom um
and so we help entrepreneurs that live
maybe far away from cities but still
you know they have an internet
connection they want to start a business
and maybe they're poor and they can't
afford
traditional services to hire an attorney
um to be able to start a business and so
what we do is we
work with what's called the small
business development commission through
the sba the small business
administration of the
federal government the united states to
help entrepreneurs
start businesses and so we give them a
computer a refurbished computer
and we also give them the equivalent of
somewhere between
500 and 700 uh pounds of cash
to be able to do things like have one
year of shopify um
it's about 100 it's about 70 80 pounds
to be able to uh start a business in the
united states it's not
that expensive at all and so we connect
them with different coaching we don't
really do a lot of the coaching
ourselves because there's only
one of me and our board is very busy
they're doing things like me
and so those those are the things that
we have going on it's it's quite a bit
um if you're interested in
any of that uh linkedin is the easiest
way to get a hold of me stephen hodges
boson hub b-o-s-o-n-h-u-b
um or bosonhub.com any of that we would
love to hear from you
even if you're just looking for a little
bit of advice i'm always willing to
to help out and point you in the right
direction stephen thank you so much mate
some great businesses there
and that charity that charity helping
startups is a really good incentive as
we were discussing before we hit record
so
really good stuff passionate about that
myself so yeah good to hear all the
all the links stephen has mentioned will
be available in the episode description
which is going to be on business
growth.marketing that's
businessgrowth.marketing with that i
want to thank you once again steven for
coming on
really appreciate it dude all right
thank you very much and uh happy
holidays and merry christmas to everyone
who's listening
certainly a merry christmas tool and if
you enjoyed the show as always be sure
to hit subscribe
for business growth show wherever the
heck you get your podcast from we
interview business leaders each and
every week
to provide actionable tips across
marketing sales and business growth
to help you boost yourself and grow your
business most importantly and if you
enjoy this show do drop us a review on
your podcast channel thanks once again
for tuning in
cheers